# Playing Videos

Let’s add the JavaScript logic for playing trailer videos. The component is almost stateless and receive props from the parent (App) component.


## Props

In the script tag, add the following:

```js
export default {
  props: ['cloudinaryInstance', 'movie'],
}
```

The `cloudinaryInstance` is an instance of the Cloudinary SDK which we will initialize in the parent component and pass down as prop to `VuePlayer` component. We can then use this instance to create a video player, add the source to the vide tag in the previous section, and activate the play/pause feature.

The `movie` prop is the player payload. It comes as a single item from the array of movies in the database. Each item has a title and a trailer video to be used for our rendering.


## Video Features

Add a `mounted` lifecycle method in the Vue object with the following:

```js
mounted() {
  this.player = this.cloudinaryInstance.videoPlayer('trailer', {
    controls: false,
    transformation: { crop: 'scale', width: 1200 }
  });
  this.player.source(
    this.movie.trailer || 'Marvel_Studios_Black_Panther_-_Official_Trailer_nmrtr7'
  );
  // Mute on blur
  document.hidden && this.player.mute()
  window.onfocus = () => this.player.unmute()
  window.onblur = () => this.player.mute()
},
```

`this.player` is passed the `videoPlayer` result which is used to create a player on the `video` tag. The first parameter passed to `videoPlayer` should match the id on the `video` tag. The second parameter is an object that holds some video configuration as well as the transformation we want to apply to the video.

With the player created, you can start using it’s methods to change the behavior of the player. You can add a `source` which should match a public ID on your Cloudinary server. The source can either be from the `movie` prop or default to the Black Panther trailer.

The video plays by default and loops as well. It gets really distracting when you are not watching (not on the playing tab). We can check if the document is hidden and if so, we mute the player. We also added some events, `onfocus` and `onblur`, that checks if we left the tab or got back to it respectively. In that case, we unmute or mute, respectively.


## Changing Current Trailer

In the next section, we are going to build a list of movies component. In that list, we should be able to select a movie and the trailer player switches to that movie and starts playing it. How do we know when the movie is selected? We can watch the movie prop that is passed down and do something when we realize the value has been changed by the parent.

Add the following in the object:

```js
watch: {
  movie(newMovie, oldMovie) {
    this.player.source(newMovie.trailer);
  }
},
```

The name of the method (`movie`) in the `watch` object must match the prop you intend to watch. When the value change, we can then call the `source` method to update the player.


## Play and Pause

In the previous section, we have a button that calls a `playPause` methods that does not exist. What is expected of this button is to toggle playing and pausing the trailer:

```js
methods: {
  playPause() {
    if (this.paused) {
      this.player.play();
      this.paused = false;
    } else {
      this.player.pause();
      this.paused = true;
    }
  }
}
```

The `paused` property lives in the model and is used to track the pause state of the video:

```js
data() {
  return {
    paused: false
  };
},
```


## Importing to `App`

The component is useless unless mounted in its parent component. Head to `App.vue` and import the component in its script:

```js
import VideoPlayer from './components/VideoPlayer.vue';
export default {
  components: {
    VideoPlayer
  }
};
```

It’s also mandatory to tell `App.vue` that the `VidePlayer` component is a child by adding it to the list of components object.

Next, render the component right below the navigation code:

```html
...
</nav>
<VideoPlayer :cloudinaryInstance="cloudinaryInstance" :movie="movie"></VideoPlayer>
```

The `cloudinaryInstance` and `movie` is passed down to the component through the `VideoPlayer` element above. None of this exists yet but we will create them in the next section.