# Deploy to Heroku

Time to show the world what we have built! We need to push the project to Heroku so it can be live and we can share with friends.

## Create a Heroku App

Initialize git on your project:

```bash
git init
```

Create a [Heroku account](https://heroku.com/) and install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli#download-and-install) tool. Then run the following command on the root of your:

```bash
heroku create <YOUR-PROJECT-NAME-HERE>
```

## Ignoring Dependencies

Heroku would want to install all the needless dependencies in your current project. These dependencies are not needed in production. Tell Heroku that and they will not be installed:

```bash
heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production --app <YOUR-PROJECT-NAME-HERE>
```

## Static Files Server

We need a server that Heroku would run to serve our static app. Install express and serve-static:

```bash
npm install express serve-static
```

Next, create a `server.js` file at the root of your project and add the following:

```js
var express = require('express');
var path = require('path');
var serveStatic = require('serve-static');

app = express();
app.use(serveStatic(__dirname + '/dist'));

var port = process.env.PORT || 5000;
app.listen(port, () => console.log('server started ' + port););
```

The code serves a `dist` folder in our project. This folder does not exist unless we run the following command to build:

```
npm run build
```

The command generates a build version of our app and puts the build in the `dist` folder.

You can test the build by running:

```bash
node server.js
```

> Remove `dist/` from `.gitnore` in the project root. This makes sure the Heroku does not ignore the directory since Heroku works with Git.

## Configure Start Script

Heroku by default, would want to run the `start` script in your `package.json`. Let's set that up:

```json
"scripts": {
    "serve": "vue-cli-service serve --open",
    "build": "vue-cli-service build",
    "lint": "vue-cli-service lint",
    "start": "node server.js"
  },
```

## Deploy

To deploy, first commit your changes to Git:

```bash
git add . && git commit -a -m "Deploy"
```

The run the following command to push to Heroku:

```bash
git push heroku master
```

After the deploy process, run the command below to open the app:

```bash
heroku open
```



